11/999
If you don’t know me, my name is Percy

Jackson. I’m a modern-day demigod—a half-

god, half-mortal son of Poseidon—but I’m

not going to say much about myself. My

story has already been written down in some

books that are total fiction (wink, wink) and

I am just a character

from the story

(cough—yeah, right—cough).

Just go easy on me while I’m telling you

about the gods, all right? There’s like forty

bajillion different versions of the myths, so

don’t be all Well, I heard it a different way,
so you’re WRONG!

I’m going to tell you the versions that

make the most sense to me. I promise I

didn’t make any of this up. I got all these

stories straight from the Ancient Greek and
Roman dudes who wrote them down in the

12/999
first place. Believe me, I couldn’t make up

stuff this weird.

So here we go. First I’ll tell you how the

world got made. Then I’ll run down a list of

gods and give you my two cents about each

of them. I just hope I don’t make them so

mad they incinerate me before I—

AGGHHHHHHHHH!

Just kidding. Still here.

Anyway, I’ll start with the Greek story of

creation, which by the way,

is seriously

messed up. Wear your safety glasses and
your raincoat. There will be blood.

THE

BEGINNING
STUFF
AND

I N THE BEGINNING, I wasn’t there. I don’t

Nobody had a pen and paper to take notes,

think the Ancient Greeks were, either.

so I can’t vouch for what follows, but I can

tell you it’s what

the Greeks

14/999
thought

happened.

At first, there was pretty much nothing. A

lot of nothing.

The first god, if you can call it that, was

Chaos—a gloomy, soupy mist with all the

matter in the cosmos just drifting around.

Here’s a fact for you: Chaos literally means

the Gap, and we’re not talking about the

clothing store.

Eventually Chaos got less chaotic. Maybe

it got bored with being all gloomy and misty.
Some of its matter collected and solidified

into the earth, which unfortunately de-

veloped a living personality. She called her-

self Gaea, the Earth Mother.

Now Gaea was the actual earth—the
the whole

the valleys,

the hills,

rocks,

15/999
enchilada. But she could also take on hu-

manlike form. She liked to walk across the

earth—which was basically walking across

herself—in the shape of a matronly woman

with a flowing green dress, curly black hair,

and a serene smile on her face. The smile hid

a nasty disposition. You’ll see that soon

enough.

After a long time alone, Gaea looked up

into the misty nothing above the earth and

said to herself: “You know what would be

good? A sky. I could really go for a sky. And
it would be nice if he was also a handsome

man I could fall in love with, because I’m

kind of lonely down here with just these

rocks.”

Either Chaos heard her and cooperated,
or Gaea simply willed it to happen. Above

16/999
the earth, the sky formed—a protective dome

that was blue in the daytime and black at

night. The sky named himself Ouranos—and,

yeah,

that’s another spelling for Uranus.

There’s pretty much no way you can pro-

nounce that name without people snickering.

It just sounds wrong. Why he didn’t choose

a better name for himself—like Deathbringer

or José—I don’t know, but it might explain

why Ouranos was so cranky all the time.

Like Gaea, Ouranos could take human

shape and visit the earth—which was good,
because the sky is way up there and long-dis-

tance relationships never work out.

In physical form, he looked like a tall,

buff guy with longish dark hair. He wore only

a loincloth, and his skin changed col-
or—sometimes blue with cloudy patterns

17/999
across his muscles, sometimes dark with

glimmering stars. Hey, Gaea dreamed him

up to look like that. Don’t blame me. Some-

times you’ll see pictures of him holding a zo-

diac wheel, representing all the constella-

tions that pass through the sky over and over

for eternity.

Anyway, Ouranos and Gaea got married.

Happily ever after?

Not exactly.

Part of the problem was that Chaos got a

little creation-happy. It thought to its misty,
gloomy self: Hey, Earth and Sky. That was

fun! I wonder what else I can make.

Soon it created all sorts of other prob-

lems—and by that I mean gods. Water collec-

ted out of the mist of Chaos, pooled in the
deepest parts of the earth, and formed the

18/999
first seas, which naturally developed a con-

sciousness—the god Pontus.

Then Chaos really went nuts and thought:

I know! How about a dome like the sky, but

at the bottom of the earth! That would be

awesome!

So another dome came into being be-

neath the earth, but it was dark and murky

and generally not very nice, since it was al-

ways hidden from the light of the sky. This

was Tartarus, the Pit of Evil; and as you can

guess from the name, when he developed a
godly personality, he didn’t win any popular-

ity contests.

The problem was, both Pontus and Tar-

tarus liked Gaea, which put some pressure

on her relationship with Ouranos.

19/999
A bunch of other primordial gods popped

up, but if I tried to name them all we’d be

here for weeks. Chaos and Tartarus had a kid

together (don’t ask how; I don’t know) called

Nyx, who was the embodiment of night.

Then Nyx, somehow all by herself, had a

daughter named Hemera, who was Day.

Those two never got along because they were

as different as…well, you know.

According to some stories, Chaos also

created Eros, the god of procreation…in oth-

er words, mommy gods and daddy gods hav-
ing lots of little baby gods. Other stories

claim Eros was the son of Aphrodite. We’ll

get to her later. I don’t know which version is

true, but I do know Gaea and Ouranos star-

ted having kids—with very mixed results.

20/999
First, they had a batch of twelve—six girls

and six boys called the Titans. These kids

looked human, but they were much taller

and more powerful. You’d figure twelve kids

would be enough for anybody, right? I mean,

with a family that big, you’ve basically got

your own reality TV show.

Plus, once the Titans were born, things

started to go sour with Ouranos and Gaea’s

marriage. Ouranos spent a lot more time

hanging out in the sky. He didn’t visit. He

didn’t help with the kids. Gaea got resentful.
The two of them started fighting. As the kids

grew older, Ouranos would yell at them and

basically act like a horrible dad.

A few times, Gaea and Ouranos tried to

patch things up. Gaea decided maybe if they

